This is the homepage of customized sipXtapi library originally developed on SIP Foundry. The goal of this project is to produce a stable, commercially usable SDK for client side SIP applications. API is designed to be simple but usable to enable rapid development. It is distributed under GNU LGPL license.

= Stability =
SipXtapi rev. 461 was reported to work from Mar 12 2008 until Oct 20 2008 (when result was posted in mailing list), with total calls 1395953, 557802 calls were established, total duration of conversations 12440 hours. SipXtapi rev. 574 was reported to be capable of handling 1.6 established milion calls without crash or noticable memory leak.

= Differences =

Main differences between customized and SIP Foundry version:
  * sipXtapi was heavily refactored, many bugs and memory leaks have been fixed, safer locking, fixed problems with conferences
  * slightly different API, more C like, C++ code is almost gone from header files
  * sipxcalllib was stripped of most unused code
  * GIPS (Global IP Sound) remnants have been removed from sipxtapi
  * custom transport support has been removed (due to poor implementation)
  * removed many hard limits from underlying libraries, unlimited number of calls
  * parallel DNS lookups in Windows. SIP foundry version only supports 1 DNS lookup at time for all threads. For Linux, parallel lookups are untested but can be enabled.
  * support for multiple core processors in media processing library. Multiple audio encoding/decoding threads are supported.
  * in-band DTMF and RFC2833 DTMF decoders, separate play buffer/file notifications, pause/resume playback
  * adaptive jitter buffer (changes size depending on jitter), refactored jitter handling
  * packet loss concealment (PLC). When it finds a perfect match frame, it will use it to conceal up to 3 missing consecutive frames.
  * uses portaudio and portmixer projects instead of old internal driver. Uses directsound or windows multimedia in Windows and OSS, Alsa in Linux. Problems in Windows Vista were fixed.
  * API for getting audio energy - 2 methods are available - VU (Volume Unit) and PPM (Peak Program Meters). There is also API for setting/getting mic/wave/master volume/balance. Both mic & speaker can be muted.
  * very easy to build
  * more secure code, usage of snprintf, snprintf_s in windows where possible, all old code was checked and replaced
  * refactored event handling in sipxmedialib and sipxcalllib
  * based on revision 9963

Original sipXmediaLib also continues to be developed on SIP foundry with the main advantage being dynamic flowgraphs and better support for embedded systems. SIP foundry sipXtapi development focuses mainly on sipXmediaLib development, while development of sipXtapi, sipXcallLib libraries is virtually halted. For users looking primarily for a media stack, SIP foundry sipXmediaLib is probably a better choice, while customized sipXtapi offers better overall features and stability.

SipXtapi 3.2.0 uses customized sipXmediaLib which was split from SIP foundry in late 2007 and is not fully compatible with SIP foundry sipXmediaLib. Unlike the latest SIP foundry sipXmediaLib, it doesn't offfer wideband audio, linear complexity bridge, VAD, so many codecs. However for a server application, these features are mostly not needed. SipXtapi 3.2.0 on the other hand should offer more stability.

SipXtapi 3.3.0 uses significantly upgraded sipXmediaLib with wideband support, VAD/DTX/CNG, linear complexity bridge (less CPU cost), many new codecs (virtually a codec explosion, most via Intel IPP 6.0), new media events, thus closing gap to SIP foundry sipXmediaLib.

= Get source code =
Source code can be downloaded directly from SVN using a command line SVN client:

svn checkout http://sipxtapi.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ sipxtapi

or by using Tortoise SVN Windows client. Select SVN checkout operation, use http://sipxtapi.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ as URL repository.

See http://code.google.com/p/sipxtapi/wiki/AvailableBranches for description of other available branches.

= Compilation =
See http://code.google.com/p/sipxtapi/wiki/Compilation

= Example applications =
There are several example applications available:
  * wxCommunicator - feature rich softphone, download from sourceforge, GPL - http://sourceforge.net/projects/wxcommunicator/
  * sipxezphone - basic softphone
  * SimpleSipxTerm - testing application/crude softphone
  * PlaceCall - simple application for making calls
  * ReceiveCall - simple application for receiving calls

= Documentation =
Doxygen generated documentation in html form can be downloaded from http://code.google.com/p/sipxtapi/downloads/list . Open index.html file to see the documentation.

= Communication =
There are several mailinglists available:
  * for developers, users - http://groups.google.com/group/sipxtapi
  * for commit messages - http://groups.google.com/group/sipxtapi-commits